Venkatesh Choppella is Associate Professor at the Indian
Institute of Information Technology and Management --
Kerala. Earlier he was also Adjunct Faculty at the Corporate
Learning Centre at Tata Consultancy Services.  He holds a
PhD. degree in Computer Science from Indiana University.  In
the past he has held research and engineering positions in
Hewlett Packard, Xerox Palo Alto Research Centre, Oak Ridge
National Laboratory and the Ohio State University in the
United States.

Dr. Choppella's research interests are in programming language
and software systems.  He has published in the area of automated
deduction, type systems, formal methods, and compilers for high
performance computing.  

Two of the papers he co-authored have received the best
paper awards at the Internation Conf. of High Performance
Computing (HiPC) 2003 and The International Parallel and
Distributed Processing Symposium (IPDPS) 2004.

At IIITM-K he has been coordinating work in web-based
collaborative systems for e-governance (see the portal
www.tvmcitypolice.org), education in the Principles of
Programming and research in bio-informatic models for
information security.

Recent Publications:
--------------------

Venkatesh Choppella, Arijit Sengupta, Edward Robertson, and
Steven D. Johnson. Constructing and Validating
Entity-Relationship models in the PVS Specification
Language: A case study using a text-book example. Technical
Report 632, Indiana University Computer Science, April 2006.

V. Choppella and C. T. Haynes. Sourcetracking unification.
Information and Computation 2005.  201(2):121-159.  Invited
submission.

Gerald Baumgartner, Alexander Auer, David E. Bernholdt, Alina
Bibireata, Venkatesh Choppella, Daniel Cociorva, Xiaoyang Gao,
Robert Harrison, So Hirata, Sriram Krishanmoorthy, Sandhya
Krishnan, Chi-Chung Lam, Marcel Nooijen, Russell Pitzer,
J. Ramanujam, P. Sadayappan, and Alexander Sibiryakov. Synthesis
if high-performance parallel programs for a class of ab initio
quantum chemistry models. Proc. of the IEEE, 93(2):276-292,
February 2005. Invited submission.

Venkatesh Choppella. Polymorphic type reconstruction using type
equations.  Implementation of Functional Languages: 15th
International Workshop, IFL 2003, Edinburgh, UK, September 8-11,
2003. Revised Papers.  Editors: Phil Trinder, Greg Michaelson,
Ricardo Pena. Lecture Notes in Computer Science. (LNCS) Vol 3145
Springer, 2004. pp 53-68.
